[docs] Update HTTPS guide (#5366)
DevExpress/testcafe: docs/articles/documentation/guides/advanced-guides/test-https-features-and-http2-websites.md

> This topic describes how TestCafe works with HTTPS and HTTP/2 websites.

Reviewer: "how TestCafe works with" What do you mean when you say 'works with'?

Author: TestCafe hosts a proxy and interacts with the tested website from there. When i say 'works with' I mean the whole process- from enabling the proxy to use HTTPS, to running actual test scripts

Reviewer: It is better to be more specific instead of saying 'how it works with' something

> [Service Workers](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Service_Worker_API),

Reviewer 2: I don't know if it the right place to describe it, but all modern browsers thread `localhost` as a secure origin by default. It means that you don't have to mess with certificates if you want to test built-in browser features that require secure origin (Service workers, GeoAPI, haven't tried the CryptoAPI, but should work too). Third-party JS features like ApplePay may or may not work depending on its implementation.

[Service Workers](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Service_Worker_API),
[Geolocation API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Geolocation_API),
[ApplePaySession](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/apple_pay_on_the_web/applepaysession), or

> [SubtleCrypto](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/SubtleCrypto)), TestCafe successfully proxies it over HTTP. Otherwise, the tests fail because the page throws JavaScript errors, does not load or loads partially.

Reviewer: "[SubtleCrypto](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/SubtleCrypto), TestCafe successfully proxies it over HTTP" This does not make sense.

Author: GitHub cut it because of line breaks. Full sentence goes:

"If the tested page does not use HTTPS-specific features (like Service Workers, Geolocation API, ApplePaySession, or
SubtleCrypto), TestCafe successfully proxies it over HTTP."

Makes sense?

Reviewer: ...TestCafe can proxy it over HTTP.

> To establish a secure HTTPS-connection, Node.js requires a valid [PKCS12](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PKCS_12) certificate (`.pfx`). If you have a certificate signed by a trusted authority, we recommend that you [use this certificate](#use-a-trusted-certificate) if your security policy permits. The browsers are then able to open the tested page without workarounds. Alternatively, you can [generate and use a self-signed certificate](#use-a-self-signed-certificate).

Reviewer: - "If you have a certificate signed by a trusted authority, we recommend that you [use this certificate](#use-a-trusted-certificate) if your security policy permits" Why do you recommend something and then add a condition to it?

- "are then able to" Do you mean 'can'?

Author: - I wanted to introduce a clickable descriptive link ("we recommend that you **use this certificate**"). If we write "we recommend that you **use it**" i feel like it'll be harder to notice. Please advise

- Yes. I used "able to" to avoid repetition, there is a 'can' in the following sentence

Reviewer: I would just say: We recommend that you [a certificate signed by a trusted authority](#use-a-trusted-certificate). This allows a browser to open the tested page without workarounds. You can also [generate and use a self-signed certificate](#use-a-self-signed-certificate).

OR

You can [generate and use a self-signed certificate](#use-a-self-signed-certificate), but we recommend that you [a certificate signed by a trusted authority](#use-a-trusted-certificate). This allows a browser to open the tested page without workarounds.

> > Before you try HTTPS, launch testcafe with [`--hostname localhost` CLI parameter](../../reference/command-line-interface.md#--hostname-name) or [`hostname: localhost` configuration option](../../reference/configuration-file.md#hostname). Since all modern browsers thread localhost as a secure origin, some built-in browser features that require secure origin (Service workers, GeoAPI) will work. Third-party JS features like ApplePaySession may or may not work depending on implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Before you use HTTPS, launch testcafe with [`--hostname localhost` CLI parameter](../../reference/command-line-interface.md#--hostname-name) or [`hostname: localhost` configuration option](../../reference/configuration-file.md#hostname). Most modern browsers thread localhost as a secure origin, and some built-in browser features that require a secure origin (Service workers, GeoAPI) should work. Third-party JS features like ApplePaySession may not work depending on implementation.
```

### Use a Trusted Certificate

To provide a certificate when you launch TestCafe with [CLI](../../reference/command-line-interface.md), use [`-ssl`](../../reference/command-line-interface.md#--ssl-options) option:

```sh
testcafe chrome  test.js --ssl pfx=path/to/trusted/certificate.pfx;rejectUnauthorized=true;
```

### Use a Self-Signed Certificate

> [Generate a self-signed certificate with `openssl`](#generate-a-certificate-from-the-command-line) if you launch tests from the command line. In the API, you can use the [openssl-self-signed-certificate](https://www.npmjs.com/package/openssl-self-signed-certificate) module to [generate a certificate in code](#generate-a-certificate-in-your-code).

Reviewer: You already mention "In the API", why do you then add  "in code"?

Author: I want the link text to be descriptive

Reviewer: To generate a certificate in code, use the openssl-self-signed-certificate module.

#### Generate a Certificate From the Command Line

In **bash**, you can use [OpenSSL](https://www.openssl.org/docs/man1.1.1/man1/openssl-req.html) to generate a certificate chain.

1. Issue your own CA certificate and a CA-signed certificate for the web server:

    ```sh
    openssl genrsa -des3 -out myCA.key 2048
    ```

    You will be prompted for a non-empty passphrase. Take note of it.  
2. Generate a root certificate:

    ```sh
    openssl req -x509 -new -nodes -key myCA.key -sha256 -days 1825 -out myCA.pem
    ```

>     You will be prompted for additional information, press Enter to skip the questions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    When you are prompted for additional information, press Enter to skip the questions.
```

3. Create a CA-signed domain certificate and a `.csr` sign request:

    ```sh
    openssl genrsa -out testingdomain.key 2048
    openssl req -new -key testingdomain.key -out testingdomain.csr
    ```

>     You can press Enter to skip the questions, but you might want to set a recognizable CN (Common Name) so that you can easily find this certificate in a list of others later.  

Reviewer: "but you might want to" and other phrases like "may or may not" make it sound like you are unsure. Be straightforward.

Author: Noted, many thanks

> 4. Create a config file `testdomain.ext` with the following contents:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Create a config file `testdomain.ext` with the following content:
```

    ```

6. Finally, export the certificate to PKCS#12 `.pfx` format:

    ```sh
    openssl pkcs12 -export -out testingdomain.pfx -inkey testingdomain.key -in testingdomain.crt -certfile myCA.pem
    ```

In **PowerShell**, [install OpenSSL](https://adamtheautomator.com/openssl-powershell/#Installing_OpenSSL_using_Chocolatey) and [update environment variables](https://adamtheautomator.com/openssl-powershell/#Update_PowerShell_Profile_Environment_Variables). Afterwards, proceed with the instructions [above](#generate-a-certificate-from-the-command-line).

##### Run Tests

When you run tests from the command line, use [--ssl](../../reference/command-line-interface.md#--ssl-options) flag to enable HTTPS on a proxy server. Specify options required to initialize [a Node.js HTTPS server](https://nodejs.org/api/https.html#https_https_createserver_options_requestlistener) after this flag in a semicolon-separated string. The most commonly used SSL options are described in the [TLS topic](https://nodejs.org/api/tls.html#tls_tls_createsecurecontext_options) in the Node.js documentation.

The examples below use a previously generated `.pfx` file to establish an HTTPS server.

> In ***Chrome*** and ***Chromium-Based*** Browsers, use `--allow-insecure-localhost` flag and [`--hostname`](../../reference/command-line-interface.md#--hostname-name) CLI parameter to make Chrome trust the certificate when tests run on localhost. If you use a different URL, use `--ignore-certificate-errors` flag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In ***Chrome*** and ***Chromium-Based*** Browsers, use the `--allow-insecure-localhost` flag and [`--hostname`](../../reference/command-line-interface.md#--hostname-name) CLI parameter to make Chrome trust the certificate when tests are run on localhost. If you use a different URL, use the `--ignore-certificate-errors` flag.
```

```sh
testcafe chrome --allow-insecure-localhost --hostname localhost test.js --ssl pfx=path/to/certificate.pfx;rejectUnauthorized=true;
```

In ***Firefox***, add your self-signed root authority to the trusted list. Follow the steps:

1. [Create a new profile](https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/profile-manager-create-remove-switch-firefox-profiles#w_creating-a-profile) in Firefox settings;
2. [Run Firefox with this profile](https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/profile-manager-create-remove-switch-firefox-profiles#w_manage-profiles-when-firefox-is-open) and [import the CA certificate](https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/questions/1059377) (`myCA.pem`) you generated previously. Ensure the **This certificate can identify websites** checkbox is checked;
3. Load this new profile when TestCafe launches Firefox. To do this, add `-P <profile_name>` to the browser's command line arguments.

```sh
testcafe 'firefox -P testing-profile' --hostname localhost assertTest.js --ssl pfx=certificate.pfx;rejectUnauthorized=true;
```

> > The certificate created in the example is valid only for localhost domain. This is why the `--hostname` option is used. If you wish to use another domain for testing, enter it in the `[alt_names]` section of `testdomain.ext` configuration file before creating the certificate.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The certificate created in the example is valid only for localhost domain. This is why the `--hostname` option is used. If you want to use another domain for testing, enter it in the `[alt_names]` section of `testdomain.ext` configuration file before creating the certificate.  
```

<!---->

> > Important! For security reasons, use this profile only for testing purposes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Important! For security reasons, only use this profile for testing purposes.
```

#### Generate a Certificate in Your Code

> When you use the programming interface, generate a certificate with the [openssl-self-signed-certificate](https://www.npmjs.com/package/openssl-self-signed-certificate) module, and pass the HTTPS server options to the [createTestCafe](../../reference/testcafe-api/global/createtestcafe.md) function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you use the programming interface, generate a certificate with the [openssl-self-signed-certificate](https://www.npmjs.com/package/openssl-self-signed-certificate) module and pass the HTTPS server options to the [createTestCafe](../../reference/testcafe-api/global/createtestcafe.md) function.
```

[Service Workers](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Service_Worker_API),
[Geolocation API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Geolocation_API),
[ApplePaySession](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/apple_pay_on_the_web/applepaysession), or
[SubtleCrypto](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/SubtleCrypto)), TestCafe successfully proxies it over HTTP. Otherwise, the tests fail because the page throws JavaScript errors, does not load or loads partially.

### Use a Self-Signed Certificate

> To establish a secure HTTPS-connection, Node.js requires a valid [PKCS12](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PKCS_12) certificate (`.pfx`). To launch tests from the command line, you need to [generate one manually](#generate-a-certificate-from-the-command-line). In API, use an [automatic module](#generate-a-certificate-in-your-code), unless you are willing to [use a trusted certificate](#use-a-trusted-certificate).

Reviewer 3: > To launch tests from the command line, you need to [generate one manually](#generate-a-certificate-from-the-command-line).

This sentence repeats the structure of the previous sentence. This is not always bad, it can even be intended, but here sentences 2 and 3 detail the first sentence, so it's not quite apt.

Secondly, "one" in "generate one manually" has no obvious connection to "certificate" to me, because it's a different sentence. "It" is better.

And since we got rid of "automatic" and "manual" in the section titles, let's remove them from here as well.

And "unless" should oppose both sentences 2 and 3, shouldn't it? Because you needn't use SSL or Node.js modules if you have a trusted certificate.

Which brings us to version 2:

`To establish a secure HTTPS-connection, Node.js requires a valid [PKCS12](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PKCS_12) certificate (`.pfx`). [Generate it with `openssl`](#generate-a-certificate-from-the-command-line) if you launch tests from the command line. In the API, you can use a [Node.js module to generate pfx](#generate-a-certificate-in-your-code). Alternatively, you can [use a trusted certificate](#use-a-trusted-certificate).`

That's okay, but shouldn't we say about trusted certificates somewhere above the "Self-signed certificate section"? Let's try:

```
...Otherwise, the tests fail because the page throws JavaScript errors, does not load or loads partially.

To establish a secure HTTPS-connection, Node.js requires a valid [PKCS12](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PKCS_12) certificate (`.pfx`). If you have a certificate signed by a trusted authority, we recommend that you [use this certificate](#use-a-trusted-certificate) if your security policy permits. The browsers are then able to open the tested page without workarounds. Alternatively, you can [generate and use a self-signed certificate](#use-a-self-signed-certificate).

### Use a Self-Signed Certificate

[Generate a self-signed certificate with `openssl`](#generate-a-certificate-from-the-command-line) if you launch tests from the command line. In the API, you can use the [openssl-self-signed-certificate](https://www.npmjs.com/package/openssl-self-signed-certificate) module to [generate a certificate in code](#generate-a-certificate-in-your-code). 
```

#### Generate a Certificate From the Command Line

> In **bash**, a certificate chain can be generated using [OpenSSL](https://www.openssl.org/docs/man1.1.1/man1/openssl-req.html).

Reviewer 3: > using

We can remove this '-ing' and passive voice if we rephrase

`In **bash**, you can use [OpenSSL](https://www.openssl.org/docs/man1.1.1/man1/openssl-req.html) to generate a certificate chain.`

1. Issue your own CA certificate and a CA-signed certificate for the web server:

    ```sh
    openssl genrsa -des3 -out myCA.key 2048
    ```

    You will be prompted for a non-empty passphrase. Take note of it.  
2. Generate a root certificate:

    ```sh
    openssl req -x509 -new -nodes -key myCA.key -sha256 -days 1825 -out myCA.pem
    ```

>     You will be prompted for additional information, skip the the questions by pressing Enter.

Reviewer 3: > skip the questions by pressing Enter.

`When you are prompted for additional information, press Enter to skip the questions.` - no '-ing'

3. Create a CA-signed domain certificate and a `.csr` sign request:

    ```sh
    openssl genrsa -out testingdomain.key 2048
    openssl req -new -key testingdomain.key -out testingdomain.csr
    ```

>     You can skip all the questions by pressing Enter, but you might want to set a recognizable CN (Common Name) so that you can easily find this certificate in a list of others later.  

Reviewer 3: Again, `You can press Enter to skip all the questions,`

4. Create a config file `testdomain.ext` with the following contents:
  
    ```sh
    authorityKeyIdentifier=keyid,issuer
    basicConstraints=CA:FALSE
    keyUsage = digitalSignature, nonRepudiation, keyEncipherment, dataEncipherment
    subjectAltName = @alt_names

    [alt_names]
    DNS.1 = localhost
    ```

> 5. Now create the certificate using our `.csr`, the CA private key (`myCA.key`), the CA certificate (`myCA.pem`), and a config file:

Reviewer 3: here you can change `using` to `from`, I think

Reviewer 3: And 'our' is not quite good for technical documentation. I first thought that you are talking about a `.csr` provided by TestCafe.

    ```

6. Finally, export the certificate to PKCS#12 `.pfx` format:

    ```sh
    openssl pkcs12 -export -out testingdomain.pfx -inkey testingdomain.key -in testingdomain.crt -certfile myCA.pem
    ```

In **PowerShell**, [install OpenSSL](https://adamtheautomator.com/openssl-powershell/#Installing_OpenSSL_using_Chocolatey) and [update environment variables](https://adamtheautomator.com/openssl-powershell/#Update_PowerShell_Profile_Environment_Variables). Afterwards, proceed with the instructions [above](#generate-a-certificate-from-the-command-line).

##### Run Tests

When you run tests from the command line, use the [--ssl](../../reference/command-line-interface.md#--ssl-options) flag to enable HTTPS on a proxy server. Specify options required to initialize [a Node.js HTTPS server](https://nodejs.org/api/https.html#https_https_createserver_options_requestlistener) after this flag in a semicolon-separated string. The most commonly used SSL options are described in the [TLS topic](https://nodejs.org/api/tls.html#tls_tls_createsecurecontext_options) in the Node.js documentation.

The examples below use a previously generated `.pfx` file to establish an HTTPS server.

> In ***Chrome*** and ***Chromium-Based*** Browsers use `--allow-insecure-localhost` flag and [`--hostname`](../../reference/command-line-interface.md#--hostname-name) CLI parameter to make Chrome trust the certificate.

Reviewer 3: This doesn't explain why is `--hostname` set to `localhost` here.

We should note that we tell TestCafe to run on `localhost` in order to be able to use browser's `--allow-insecure-localhost`. If we use a different URL for TestCafe, we should specify `--ignore-certificate-errors`.

```sh
testcafe chrome --allow-insecure-localhost --hostname localhost test.js --ssl pfx=path/to/certificate.pfx;rejectUnauthorized=true;
```

> In ***Firefox*** it is necessary to add your self-signed root authority to the trusted list. Follow the steps:

Reviewer 3: We can save four words here:

`In ***Firefox***, add`

1. [Create a new profile](https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/profile-manager-create-remove-switch-firefox-profiles#w_creating-a-profile) in Firefox settings;

> 2. [Run Firefox with this profile](https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/profile-manager-create-remove-switch-firefox-profiles#w_manage-profiles-when-firefox-is-open) and [import the CA certificate](https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/questions/1059377) (`myCA.pem`) you generated previously. Make sure to check the **"This certificate can identify websites"** checkbox;

Reviewer 3: `**"This certificate can identify websites"**`

We don't need both bold and quotes, just bold is enough to mention a UI option:

`**This certificate can identify websites**`

Reviewer 3: **Make sure to check** can be read like **Don't forget to pay your attention to**, like in 'make sure to check this movie'

So, I would say 'Ensure the **This certificate can identify websites** checkbox is checked.'

> 3. Load this new profile when TestCafe Studio launches Firefox. To do this, add `-P <profile_name>` to the browser's command line arguments. Ensure that **"Use the selected  user profile at startup without asking"** is disabled.

Reviewer 3: You left `TestCafe Studio`.

I'm also not sure where **Use the selected user profile at startup without asking** is located. Is it a Firefox option?

Author: I just rechecked. It probably doesn't belong here at all, removed.

```sh
testcafe 'firefox -P testing-profile' --hostname localhost assertTest.js --ssl pfx=certificate.pfx;rejectUnauthorized=true;
```

> > The certificate created in the example is valid only for localhost domain, hence the `--hostname` option. If you wish to use another domain for testing, enter it in the `[alt_names]` section of `testdomain.ext` configuration file before creating the certificate.  

Reviewer 3: 'hence' is not a good fit for tech docs. `This is why the --hostname option is used` is better.

    .run();
```

> ### Use a Trusted Certificate

Reviewer 3: Please move this section before the section about self-signed certificates (because it's preferred).

> You can use a certificate signed by a trusted authority to launch tests with TestCafe. We recommend that you prefer a trusted certificate over self-signed if your security policy permits. The browsers are then able to open the tested page without workarounds.

Reviewer 3: If you agree with my above suggestion to move this text before the "Use a trusted certificate" and "Use a self-signed certificate" sections, you can delete it from here.
